#Implementation
This project is implemented using a combination of PHP as the middleware with HTML providing the user interface client side and MySQL as the database language.  HTML templates use the Twig templating system for ease of design.  The PHP code is implemented using Symfony, which aids in designing routing and the separation of different types of functions into separate classes.  This is useful for code reuse and debugging.  Symfony provides access to various built-in services and also the ability to design services and tie them into the current project where appropriate.
##Initial design
The first step was to analyse the system data requirements and the operations that it would be required to perform.  Use cases and class diagrams were used to set out the steps and data required.  The next step involved creating the database and the User and Books tables.  Sample user details were filled in.  Book details were taken from published books, the details were sourced from the Book Depository website, the descriptions were created for the database by the author.  A Loans table was also created.
##Symfony project
The code for the project started with initialising a Symfony project through the command line and auto-generating the User and Books entity classes. The next step involved creating BookController, UserController and MainController classes.  These classes contain methods that will act upon the entity classes.  The MainController is used for general acions.  The Repositories for the User and Books entities were also created.  These classes contain the methods for querying the database tables specific to each entity.
##Templates
A base twig template was designed that holds the design that will be common to all pages.  A homepage, an about page and a page to list books were also designed.  These templates extend the base template so that only code specific to each page is necessary to include in each template.  The list books template was designed to test that the code could connect to the database and retrieve data from it.  A list users template was also designed to test the same thing for the user table. A search page and login page were added using the Symfony FormBuilderInterface which contains methods for creating forms that can be overwritten with methods specific to the form being built.  Navigation links were added to the base template to connect to the required templates in this design.  A basic CSS stylesheet was included to give the website some basic styling.  
##User authentication
The library system makes use of Symfony's user authentication services and interfaces which streamline user login and authentication.
